# Bridge-Health-Monitoring
A method to measure and/or monitor the health of a bridge in real time

## Introduction
In the interests of preventing catastrophic failure in aging bridges, we seek to develop a method to measure and/or monitor the health of a real-world bridge by analyzing its vibration response and comparing it with a simulated response which is generated by Finite Element Analysis. 
The current state of the project can generate color maps which illustrate the features of a bridge which are most important to its health. This will allow future researchers to focus in on those aspects, thereby increasing their understanding of bridge safety.

##Dataset and Software
We generated a dataset using LARSA, a software suite for the analysis of bridges. LARSA structures can then be simulated using Finite Element Analysis to simulate behavior of the structures as a result of an external stimulus, like earthquakes, wind loads, or standard use. Our dataset was generated using a simulated 'train' traveling over the bridge at 60 miles per hour. 
The same simulation was run 5863 times for different parameter sets, giving the same number of simulated results, each containing 8 points of interest on the bridge with acceleration values taken at 20 Hz over 5 seconds. The result for 5863 states came to 67.1 MB, and took 2 days on 5 Amazon Web Servers to compute. The dataset will be substantially larger as the number of parameters and parameter variations increase. 

##Modeling Software
LARSA, OpenBrIM

##LLanguages,
R, MATLAB, VB.NET, Java, ParamML


Data Visualization: colormaps generated using Matlab
OpenBrIM for bridge parameterization and visualization
Recommendation Algorithms using Mahout
LARSA for Finite Element Model Visualization and Finite Element Analysis (dataset generation)


​